
mode mode       If the driver for the interface supports the media
                     selection system, force the mode of the interface to the
                     given mode.  For IEEE 802.11 wireless interfaces that
                     support multiple modes, this directive is used to select
                     between 802.11a ("11a"), 802.11b ("11b"), 802.11g
                     ("11g"), and 802.11n ("11n") modes.

     -mode           Select the mode automatically.  This is the default for
                     IEEE 802.11 wireless interfaces.


IEEE 802.11 (WIRELESS DEVICES)
     ifconfig wireless-interface [[-]bssid bssid] [[-]chan [n]] [[-]join id]
              [[-]joinlist] [[-]nwflag flag] [[-]nwid id] [[-]nwkey key]
              [[-]powersave [duration]] [scan] [[-]wpa] [wpaakms akm,akm,...]
              [wpaciphers cipher,cipher,...] [wpagroupcipher cipher]
              [[-]wpakey passphrase | hexkey] [wpaprotos proto,proto,...]

     The following options are available for a wireless interface:

     bssid bssid
             Set the desired BSSID.

     -bssid  Unset the desired BSSID.  The interface will automatically select
             a BSSID in this mode, which is the default.

     chan [n]
             Set the channel (radio frequency) to n.

             With no channel specified, show the list of channels supported by
             the device.

     -chan   Unset the desired channel.  It doesn't affect the channel to be
             created for IBSS or Host AP mode.

     join id
             Add the network with NWID/ESSID id to the list of auto-join
             networks.  Information about such networks is retained, such that
             configured interfaces can automatically switch to such networks
             as necessary.  Note that join does not represent a complete
             "wireless profile" as only the wpakey, nwkey, and nwid parameters
             are retained.  IEEE802.11 mode (11a/11b/11g/11n) and channel
             parameters are not retained, so should not be included.

             The id can either be any text string up to 32 characters in
             length, or a series of hexadecimal digits up to 64 digits.  Any
             necessary wpakey or nwkey arguments should be specified on the
             same line.  The empty string allows the interface to
             automatically connect to any available access points if no known
             access points are found.  May not be used with nwid.

     -join id


     joinlist
             Show the list of currently configured auto-join networks.

     -joinlist
             Remove all networks in the list of auto-join networks.

     nwflag flag
             Set specified flag.  The flag name can be:

             hidenwid    The `hidenwid' flag will hide the network ID (ESSID)
                         in beacon frames when operating in Host AP mode.  It
                         will also prevent responses to probe requests with an
                         unspecified network ID.

             nobridge    The `nobridge' flag will disable the direct bridging
                         of frames between associated nodes when operating in
                         Host AP mode.  Setting this flag will block and
                         filter direct inter-station communications.

             stayauth    The `stayauth' flag will cause the interface to
                         ignore deauth frames.  This flag should only be used
                         on wifi networks which are being attacked with
                         spoofed deauth frames.  It breaks interoperability
                         with spectrum management solutions and access points
                         that perform band-steering of clients.

             Note that the `hidenwid' and `nobridge' options do not provide
             any security.  The hidden network ID will be sent in clear text
             by associating stations and can be easily discovered with tools
             like tcpdump(8) and hostapd(8).

     -nwflag flag
             Remove specified flag.


   nwid id
             Connect to the network with NWID id.  Unlike auto-join networks,
             information about the network is not retained.  The empty string
             allows the interface to connect to any available access points.
             May not be used with join.

     -nwid   Set the NWID to the empty string to allow the interface to
             connect to any available access point.

     nwkey key
             Enable WEP encryption using the specified key.  The key can
             either be a string, a series of hexadecimal digits (preceded by
             `0x'), or a set of keys of the form "n:k1,k2,k3,k4" where `n'
             specifies which of the keys will be used for transmitted packets,
             and the four keys, "k1" through "k4", are configured as WEP keys.
             If a set of keys is specified, a comma (`,') within the key must
             be escaped with a backslash.  Note that if multiple keys are
             used, their order must be the same within the network.

             The length of each key must be either 40 bits for 64-bit
             encryption (5-character ASCII string or 10 hexadecimal digits) or
             104 bits for 128-bit encryption (13-character ASCII string or 26
             hexadecimal digits).

     -nwkey  Disable WEP encryption.

     nwkey persist
             Enable WEP encryption using the persistent key stored in the
             network card.

     nwkey persist:key
             Write key to the persistent memory of the network card, and
             enable WEP encryption using that key.

     powersave
             Enable 802.11 power saving mode.  Power saving is disabled by
             default.  See driver specific manual pages to see details of the
             implementation relevant to that device.

     -powersave
             Disable 802.11 power saving mode.

     scan    Show the results of an access point scan.  In Host AP mode, this
             will dump the list of known nodes without scanning.  In station
             mode, this will list each access point's SSID, channel, MAC
             address (BSSID), received signal strength indicator, maximum data
             transfer rate, and supported feature flags.  If an access point
             cannot be selected due to incompatibilities with the interface
             configuration, ifconfig indicates mismatching configuration items
             with an exclamation mark.

     wpa     Enable Wi-Fi Protected Access.  WPA is a Wi-Fi Alliance protocol
             based on the IEEE 802.11i standard.  It was designed to enhance
             the security of wireless networks.  Notice that not all drivers
             support WPA.  Check the driver's manual page to know if this
             option is supported.

     -wpa    Disable Wi-Fi Protected Access.

     wpaakms akm,akm,...
             Set the comma-separated list of allowed authentication and key
             management protocols.

             The supported values are "psk" and "802.1x".  psk authentication
             (also known as personal mode) uses a 256-bit pre-shared key.
             802.1x authentication (also known as enterprise mode) is used
             with an external IEEE 802.1X authentication server, such as
             wpa_supplicant.  The default value is "psk".  "psk" can only be
             used if a pre-shared key is configured using the wpakey option.

    wpaciphers cipher,cipher,...
             Set the comma-separated list of allowed pairwise ciphers.

             The supported values are "tkip", "ccmp", and "usegroup".
             usegroup specifies that no pairwise ciphers are supported and
             that only group keys should be used.  The default value is
             "ccmp".  If multiple pairwise ciphers are specified, the pairwise
             cipher will be negotiated between the station and the access
             point at association time.  A station will always try to use ccmp
             over tkip if both ciphers are allowed and supported by the access
             point.  If the selected cipher is not supported by the hardware,
             software encryption will be used.  Check the driver's manual page
             to know which ciphers are supported in hardware.

     wpagroupcipher cipher
             Set the group cipher used to encrypt broadcast and multicast
             traffic.

             The supported values are "wep40", "wep104", "tkip", and "ccmp".
             The default value is "ccmp".  The use of tkip or wep40 or wep104
             as the group cipher is discouraged due to weaknesses in TKIP and
             WEP.  The wpagroupcipher option is available in Host AP mode
             only.  A station will always use the group cipher of the BSS.

     wpakey passphrase | hexkey
             Set the WPA key and enable WPA.  The key can be given using
             either a passphrase or a full length hex key, starting with 0x.
             If a passphrase is used the nwid or join option must first be
             specified, since ifconfig will hash the nwid along with the
             passphrase to create the key.

     -wpakey
             Delete the pre-shared WPA key and disable WPA.


     wpaprotos proto,proto,...
             Set the comma-separated list of allowed WPA protocol versions.

             The supported values are "wpa1" and "wpa2".  wpa1 is based on
             draft 3 of the IEEE 802.11i standard whereas wpa2 is based on the
             ratified standard.  The default value is "wpa2".  If "wpa1,wpa2"
             is specified, a station will always use the wpa2 protocol when
             supported by the access point.


